# Flutter Template with Clean Architecture

## Description

This repository contains a Flutter project template with Clean Architecture, which separates concerns into well-defined layers for better organization, maintenance, and scalability of the code. The project structure follows the principles of Clean Architecture and provides a solid foundation for developing Flutter applications in a structured and modular way.

## Usage Instructions

1. **Clone the Repository**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/darioortelus/flutter-template-clean-architecture.git
```  
3. **Install Dependencies**
Navigate to the project directory and run the following command to install dependencies:
```bash
cd flutter-template-clean-architecture
```
```bash
flutter pub get
```

4. **Configure Credentials**
If the project requires credentials, such as API keys, make sure to configure them correctly in the code or in secure configuration files that are not included in the public repository.

5. **Run the Application**
To run the application on an emulator or connected device, use the following command:
```bash
flutter run
```
6. **Run Tests**
Use the following command to run unit and integration tests:
```bash
flutter test
```
7. **Customize the Project**
Customize the project according to your application's needs, including modifying screens, widgets, business logic, and services.

8. **Contribution**
If you wish to contribute to the project, follow best collaboration practices and create pull requests with your improvements or fixes.

9. **Additional Documentation**
Add additional documentation, such as code style guides, contribution rules, and more, to facilitate collaboration and project maintenance.

## Project Structure

The project follows a file structure organized according to Clean Architecture principles. Make sure to review the project structure and understand the responsibility of each directory and file before making modifications.

Here's the translated description of each directory and its responsibilities in the structure:

1.**android/ and ios/:** Directories automatically generated by Flutter for building the application on Android and iOS, respectively.

2.**lib/:** Contains all the source code of the application, organized according to Clean Architecture.

3.**data/:** Data layer that handles data retrieval and storage. It contains:
  - **repositories/:** Interfaces to access data, such as UserRepository and ProductRepository.
  - **datasources/:** Concrete implementations to fetch data, such as remote (Remote) and local (Local) data sources.

4.**domain/:** Domain layer that defines the business rules and system entities. It contains:
  - **entities/:** Entity classes like User and Product.
  - **repositories/:** Repository interfaces that define data retrieval and storage operations.

5.**presentation/:** Presentation layer that manages the user interface and presentation logic. It contains:
  - **screens/:** Application screens like HomeScreen and ProfileScreen.
  - **widgets/:** Reusable widgets such as custom buttons, dropdown menus, etc.

6.**main.dart:** Main file of the application where the Flutter code starts.

7.**test/:** Contains unit and integration test files for the application code.

8.**pubspec.yaml:** Flutter configuration file to specify dependencies, assets, plugins, etc.

9.**README.md:** Documentation file with basic information about the project.

## Contributions

Contributions are welcome to improve this project and make it more useful for the Flutter community. Feel free to open issues to report problems or suggest improvements, and send pull requests with your contributions.

We hope this project is helpful and helps you get started with Flutter and Clean Architecture effectively!